8.46pmHello, and welcome to Sports Mole's live coverage of the US Open final between Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer.;8.49pmAfter 13 days of competition, could the tournament be wrapped up in any better way than another instalment of Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer? With 26 Major titles between them, two of the best players in the history of the sport will lock horns in an attempt to further cement their legacy in the sport on the biggest stage of them all in New York.;8.53pmLike the women's final last night, don't expect this showdown to get underway until 20 minutes past the hour. The US Open organisers will have all the rigmarole of presentations and national anthems to get through before the two combatants make their way onto Arthur Ashe Stadium.;8.54pmThat's if we get underway on time at all...Uh-oh. pic.twitter.com/RBrN3IptDI—DavidLaw (@DavidLawTennis) September 13, 2015;8.59pmI was just about to tell you that the weather had been much better than previously forecast, but it's doesn't look too promising as far as the next hour is concerned. The rain has started to fall in New York and we are going to have a delayed start.;9.06pmOn the bright side, at least this rain has come now rather than in half an hour's time after all of the warm-up and preparation, etc. Nevertheless, we are going to hold fire with the rest of our coverage for now but we will be back as soon as we have a start time. See you soon!;12.06amAfter three hours of rain delays, we are finally back with you! Rafael and Roger are due to walk onto Arthur Ashe at 12.10am, BST. About time, too!;12.10amApparently, we are not due any more rain - we can only keep our fingers crossed - but it's worth noting that the initial delay was only expected to be an hour long. That said, let's stay positive! The two players are through their pre-match interviews and on their way down the tunnel...;12.13amWhat a reception! Roger is out first to a spine-tingling reaction and so is Rafael, albeit a bit quieter in terms of decibel levels. Federer has won the toss and he has elected to serve first.;12.17amHEAD TO HEAD! These two have enjoyed the most epic of rivalries and tonight's encounter is their 42nd meeting, with Federer edging it 21 to 20. In 2015, they have played on hard courts on three occasions, with their last contest in Cincinnati seeing Federer put on a serving masterclass to breeze to the win. Will the same happen tonight? We are about to find out!;12.19amFederer is waiting and ready to go. Game on!;Nadal *0-1 FedererFederer opens up with a thudding ace down the middle before he moves to 30-15 with another sharp delivery. Nadal levels things up with a forehand winner before Federer misses out on game point with a bad forehand error. The same occurs on the next point too and it's break point to the world number one. It goes begging, as does a second chance as Federer unloads down the line. Nadal nets a return as he squanders a third opening and Federer eventually comes through with a hold. That game took seven minutes...;Nadal 1-1* FedererWow. Nadal holds to love in about a minute. That's all there is to say about that.;Nadal *2-1 FedererBREAK! Many thought that it would be Federer who would react best to the extended delay but Nadal has started this match ridiculously sharp. At 0-30, he hammers Federer into submission for three break points. The Swiss saves the first two, but after a lengthy exchange on the third, it's Federer who blinks first and Nadal lands the first blow.;2.34amThat's just the third time that Federer has been broken all tournament. Like I say, Nadal looks sharp.;Nadal 2-2* FedererBREAK! Nadal drops the opening point of his second service game, and on the second, he hits the deck when losing his footing on the way to the net. It's nasty fall and he has grazed his arm and cut the top of his hand. Ouch. He then falls three break points behind, and although he saves the first, he nets a tame backhand on the second and we are back all square.;Nadal *2-3 FedererFederer holds to love without needing to get into a rally and it's his turn to look in control. The trainer is on to tend to Nadal's arm. In all fairness, it's a pretty bad graze to his right forearm.;Nadal 3-3* FedererNadal eases into a 30-0 lead, but Federer halves the deficit with a crushing backhand down the line. The world number one seals the hold to 15 with his first ace of the night. That arm is still firing on all cylinders.;Nadal *4-3 FedererBREAK! Federer coasts into a 30-0 advantage but a couple of mistakes, including a simple volley, gives Nadal 30-30. That becomes break point when Federer hits the tape with a backhand, and it's taken with a terrific backhand down the line.;Nadal 5-3* FedererAfter the first two points are shared, Federer just misses the baseline with a backhand, but he reaches break point thanks to a double fault and a scandalous forehand mistake from Nadal. It's so bad. He regains his composure, though, and converting a challenging smash helps secure the hold.;Nadal *5-4 FedererAt 30-15, Federer looks well on his way to a comfortable hold but a Nadal passing shot and an error from the Swiss gift his opponent a set point. Nadal gets into the next rally but he is furious with himself after netting a backhand. Federer takes the next two points and the Serbian must serve for the set.;Nadal 6-4* FedererSET! Nadal takes the opening two points after wayward efforts from his opponent, before a first-serve return is sent over the baseline. It's three set points to the world number one and the first is taken after a powerful forehand is returned into the net by Federer. First blood to Nadal.;Nadal *6-4 0-1 FedererThe key to Federer getting back into this match is avoiding exchanges that advance past 10 shots, and that's something that happened too much in the opener. Despite losing a lengthy rally, he reaches 40-30 but a double fault gives Nadal deuce. Federer gets back on the front foot, though, executing a one-two off his first serve to get the job done.;Nadal 6-4 1-1* FedererWe are yet to see the Federer "SABR" on a second serve...until now. He executes it perfectly too to land a backhand on the line and a passing shot extends his advantage to 0-30. The Swiss creates three break points, but back comes Nadal, who rises to the occasion in front of what is fast becoming a pro-Federer crowd. After several deuces, the Serbian holds.;Nadal *6-4 1-2 FedererThis feels like a different Federer in this set. He races through to a love hold with four super first serves. Pressure back on Rafael.;Nadal *6-4 2-2 FedererFederer is making his way to the net with increasing regularity but Nadal is starting to pick his approaches. The world number one holds to 15 and this is hotting up, even if conditions in New York are pretty cool.;Nadal *6-4 2-3 FedererIt's another hold to love for the Swiss. He has now won the last 10 points behind his own delivery. A message is being sent to his opponent.;Nadal 6-4 3-3* FedererSo far, you have to credit Nadal. Serving second in any match is difficult but in a final, even more testing. He's doing well to his varying up his game to keep Federer guessing to some extent and he comes through to 15. They are flying through the games right now.;Nadal *6-4 3-4 FedererGuess what? Another Federer service game and another hold to love. Nadal had his chance to break the streak when advancing into the net for a pretty makable volley but it clipped the top of the net and stay his side of the court.;Nadal 6-4 4-4* FedererSome baffoon calls out during Nadal's service toss but the Nadal ignores sending his first serve miles long by pressuring Federer into the mistake on his second. The world number one powers to a hold to love and he looks incredibly focused right now.;Nadal *6-4 4-5 FedererFederer's run of consecutive points on serve comes to an end when he throws in a double fault, but he responds with an ace. Class. Nadal's reply is outstanding, connecting with a return before overpowering his opponent with his forehand. It's 30-30, but Federer is all over a smash to reach game point. It's taken with a serve out wide and Nadal must serve to remain in this second set.;Nadal 6-4 5-5* FedererNadal shows incredible relfexes at the net to 15-0 before Federer miscues a forehand when on the attack. That was a chance. However, the world number one twice finds the net and we have 30-30 - Federer is two points from the set. It should be one but Federer sends a smash right onto the racquet of Nadal who fires straight back at the Swiss. Nadal is PUMPED! The Serbian misses out but he gets a second chance with a superb forehand that catches the line. Federer isn't finished though, and a missed forehand from Nadal gives Federer a set point. Nadal comes back to create a game point but Federer gets a second chance for the set with a backhand down the line. He misses an absolute sitter of a forehand though, and is made to pay the price. After a 14-minute game, Nadal holds. How huge could that be?;Nadal *6-4 5-6 FedererAfter the opening two points are shared, Federer finds the net with an attempted backhand down the line. He recovers with two timely first serves to reach game point, before another out wide forces Nadal to go wide.;Nadal 6-4 5-7* FedererSET! Nadal opens with a poor backhand into the net but he applies the pressure on the next point to move level at 15-15. The crowd are shouting for Roger. They get what they want when Nadal goes long twice in succession and the Swiss has two more set points. Nadal is a rock on the first and the point ends with Federer framing a forehand, but the second seed strikes with a stunning backhand into the corner that Nadal can only send wide. Arthur Ashe Stadium ERUPTS!;Nadal *6-4 5-7 0-1 FedererFederer is very much in the ascendancy right now and it's going to be interesting to see how Nadal reacts. Federer secures a hold to 15 and this is a big service game coming up for the world number one.;Nadal 6-4 5-7 1-1* FedererAfter the opening two shots are shared, Federer produces another SABR and it pays off as Nadal blazes a backhand long. A second SABR in succession for Federer but despite gaining control of the rally, he nets a volley. He does the same to hand Nadal a game point, which is taken with a forehand winner from inside the court.;Nadal *6-4 5-7 2-1 FedererBREAK! After another aggressive winner, Federer looks on course for the easy hold but a double fault and wayward backhand allows Nadal to get back to deuce. That becomes break point thanks to a superb deep return from the Serbian, and he strikes when Federer directs a forehand into the tramlines. Bad error.;Nadal 6-4 5-7 2-2* FedererBREAK! It's Nadal's turn to concede a double fault, before a miscued forehand gives Federer 15-30. Nadal responds with a big first serve and a backhand winner down the line for game point, but he misses out, and for a second time, before Federer roars back to earn a break-back point. It's taken when Nadal nets a backhand from the baseline. This could be a long one, folks.;Nadal *6-4 5-7 2-3 FedererOne winner and two unreturned first serves sees Federer reach 40-0 before the game is rounded off with an ace. Momentum shift.;Nadal 6-4 5-7 3-3* FedererNadal falls to 0-30 after a SABR forces the double fault, but he gets back to 30-30 with two good first serves. He makes it four points in a row and that's an excellent hold from the position he was in.;Nadal *6-4 5-7 3-4 FedererAnother routine hold for Federer, who is continuing to crush his shots off the ground. A love hold is completed with a serve out wide. You'd have to say he looks the favourite for this match.;Nadal 6-4 5-7 4-4* FedererSome heavy-hitting from Nadal takes him to 40-0, but Federer is all over a second-serve return to remain competitive. Nadal hooks a forehand long to make things even more interesting before deuce is reached when Nadal nets. What is going on? He hooks a backhand wide of the line to hand Federer a break point, but the Swiss misses out when he nets a forehand. Nadal saves another with some herculean play on the baseline and it eventually helps him to a crucial hold.;Nadal *6-4 5-7 5-4 FedererBREAK! A seventh ace of the contest takes Federer to two game points, but Nadal produces some of the most inspired play that you have ever seen to get back to deuce, chasing down a drive volley to catch Federer out on the other side of the court. A break point is created by a a sharp second-serve return and Nadal gives himself the chance to serve for the set when Federer misses with a backhand. Big few minutes in this tennis match coming up.;Nadal 6-4 5-7 6-4* MATCH! Nadal opens the game with a one-two off his serve. He needed that. However, he misses with a backhand for 15-15, before Federer catches the baseline with a volley. Federer then lands a backhand winner cross-court for two break points. This is insane. Nadal saves the first with a quite incredible second serve, before a massive first serve out wide gets him to deuce. However, Federer unloads off his backhand wing to create a third chance, but Nadal responds again to force Federer to slice long. Unreal effort from both men. It's championship point to Nadal after a solid first serve. Can he take it? HE CAN! Federer sends a return long and Rafael Nadal is the champion!;3.43amWe may have had to wait three hours for this match to get start, but boy, what a match. Nadal may have faced 23 break points, saving 19 of them, and had the crowd against him all match but the world number one moves to 10 Grand Slam titles with one of the performances of his career. Commiserations to Federer but in the third and fourth sets, too many mistakes came from his racquet.;3.44amThat will be all from Sports Mole coverage of this match but we hope you can stick around for the reaction that will follow. Thanks for joining us and it is goodbye for now.;

